Hello, I'm Rhonda Stratton,
and I'm your host for this session.
I work in the QuickTime group,
and this session is Designing Distance
Learning Solutions with QuickTime.
Now that we've gotten the
legal junk out of the way,
I will be short and
introduce Steve Bannerman,
who is the CEO of CashStream,
and his company has designed what
we think is a pretty interesting
distance learning solution,
and he's going to talk about that,
and he's got some other
speakers to help him out.
We'll have questions
and answers at the end,
so if you can hold your
questions to that point,
and when you do have questions,
line up at the microphones.
I think you guys know the drill by now.
Line up at the microphones,
and we'll take those
questions at the end.
Okay?
Thanks.
So first of all,
I have to point out that when
we turned our slides into Apple,
it actually said "Designing a
Distance Learning Solution with
QuickTime," and they changed it.
So we can actually,
we know our grammar and
we can actually write,
but for some reason it
didn't show up that way.
So we have a few speakers for you in
this hour and a half session today,
because I really didn't think that
you wanted a marketing guy to get up
here and talk a lot about marketing,
so we're not going to do that.
But I do want to sort of start off the
presentation by giving you a little
bit of context to sort of give you a
sense for why we are what we are and
how we got to where we are right now.
Because you know,
you don't just sort of wake up
one day and decide you're going to
build a distance learning solution,
you know,
and what the market requirements
are going to be and how you're
going to implement that.
But we're going to spend most
of our time with Chris Kawalek,
who is our CTO,
and he's going to talk about the
product and the challenges and,
you know,
the advantages and all those kinds
of things of using QuickTime.
And then we're going
to have a lot of fun,
because we've invited
one of our customers.
A very distinguished customer, Dr.
Steven Erte from
Cornell University's medical school,
to give you a sense of how he
actually implemented our product in
his distance learning application.
So we're going to spend a
lot of time in demo land.
We've got a couple of demos.
One of them is actually live,
so we did our sacrifice to
the demo gods beforehand,
and we'll see how that goes.
So when you look at the
e-learning market out there,
e-learning takes place in a few areas,
not the least of which is the
classic extend the classroom
distance learning applications.
But e-learning also takes
place in corporate America in
corporate training applications,
and also really is extended
now into what we consider to
be corporate communications,
where people are actually holding
internal meetings using these kinds
of products and stuff like that.
And you can see that this
market is actually poised for
a tremendous amount of growth.
So when we first started this product,
it was really born out of a request
that I got when I was working
on the QuickTime team from a
friend of mine at the Mayo Clinic,
who said, you know,
I've been trying to put presentations on
the Internet using this real producer.
And I've been trying to put presentations
on the Internet using this real producer.
And it just doesn't work.
It's just not reliable.
Is there anything based on
QuickTime that I can use that's
more reliable and cross-platform?
And unfortunately, at the time, I said,
well, no.
So what do we do?
So I decided that we were going to go
and I was going to join this company.
We were going to build this thing.
And so we built it to the requirements
that the Mayo Clinic gave us for how
they wanted to implement a solution.
And we decided, all right,
do we productize this thing,
or do we just treat it as a one-off?
And when you look at the
landscape of this market,
it became really obvious to us
that we wanted to productize.
We wanted to productize it because there
were some tremendous opportunities.
But the opportunities are not just
in sort of the growth of the market,
but the way other people are
actually attacking that growth.
So when you look at the growth
of the market and the way this
kind of a market has evolved,
people used to compare the sort of
cost of ownership advantages of these
kinds of products against travel.
And it's like, okay, well,
it's a lot cheaper to do
this kind of stuff online
than it is to get on a plane.
Well, that was sort of the first
generation of these kind of products.
And then you're looking at the knee of
the curve where there's an opportunity
for second generation and third
generation products to come in and say,
well, okay, you don't really measure
this against travel anymore.
You measure this against the
total cost of ownership for
first generation products.
And you realize you're spending
almost as much on those products
as you were on travel because
of the nature of the beast.
And I'll talk more about
that in just a second.
So really, we come in in that sort of
second generation where we have
an opportunity to take a market
that's already been validated,
where some of our competitors
have already been validated.
We've already gone in and said, okay,
people believe now that
this is a good idea.
And how do we take that and make it a
cost-effective idea and really drive
the price down and the functionality up?
So, just to sort of prove that
this market has been seeded and
this market has been validated,
Forbes magazine just recently,
like last month,
named WebEx the fastest growing
technology company in all of tech.
And so, this is a company that throughout
the sort of dot-com bust has
really been growing very,
very rapidly.
And so the whole category
is really starting to grow,
but we think the explosive
growth is going to come from
these next generation products.
[Transcript missing]
All right, so Castream Enterprise is
the name of our product,
and I'm finished now
with the marketing stuff.
I'm sure you're all glad to hear that.
And so at this point,
what I'd like to do is
bring Chris Kawalek,
our CTU,
up and have him sort of go in-depth into
how our product works and what it does.
So thank you very much.
Hello, everybody.
I hope you're enjoying the show so far.
I know I have.
As Steve said, my name is Chris Kawalek.
I'm the CTO of Castream.
And I'm going to talk to you today about
the challenges of designing a distance
learning solution and how QuickTime can
help you meet a lot of those challenges.
What we're going to talk about
primarily is the basic goals
for distance learning projects.
This will apply to any sort of
distance learning solution that you
may be designing or involved in,
and how QuickTime can
help you meet those goals.
One of the interesting things about
Castream is that we rely very,
very heavily on QuickTime.
And I call QuickTime sort of
an off-the-shelf technology
because it's such a rich suite,
or it has such a rich ability
to do many different things,
that you can implement it very,
very easily in your application
and get lots of functionality with
not a ton of work on your part.
So in our case,
we're using QuickTime for both
the audio/video playback within
our distance learning solution,
the still image playback, of course,
for the slides, and we're also using
QuickTime data handlers,
which I think people aren't really
using that often these days,
but we're using the QuickTime data
handlers to actually
download the slide media,
and we'll talk some more
about that later on,
specifically how we're doing that.
So there's several design goals that
you need to be conscious of when you're
designing a distance learning solution.
The most important thing is
you need to synchronize audio
and video with the slides.
Now this doesn't seem like
it's that big of a deal,
but it actually is,
because in any sort of
live Internet broadcasting,
there's some sort of inherent delay.
Nothing you can really do about it.
All the systems involve some sort of
buffering to deal with latency that
may come up and that sort of thing.
And it really is a big deal when you're
doing a presentation when the slides
appear at slightly the wrong time.
If they appear a couple seconds
before the video stream is
talking about that slide,
it really throws off the presentation
and ruins the cohesiveness of everything.
So it's very important that you
can synchronize your audio and
video with the slides in a very,
very tight manner.
That's something you absolutely
have to accomplish with a
distance learning solution.
One of the things that we really
wanted to accomplish was the ability
to display rich media slides,
which include things
like Macromedia's Flash,
progressive QuickTime movies,
QuickTime VR, those sorts of things,
in addition to just your standard
still Keynote or PowerPoint.
slide sort of thing.
You need to be able to do both
real time and on demand video.
It's fantastic to be able to have
a live tool so that people can
meet and watch the presentation,
but a lot of times, I mean,
in our global economy,
in our global world,
it's not convenient for people
in other countries to view
the presentation in real time.
So it's really nice to be able
to archive that presentation.
It really opens up your audience
so that many more people can
experience it when they otherwise
wouldn't have an opportunity to.
Obviously, it has to be easy to use.
It's very important for the system
to not be an inhibitor for the
people that are trying to use it,
because a lot of times,
these people don't really
care about the technology.
They just want to give
their presentations.
They want to disseminate
this information,
and they don't want the
tool to get in their way.
So they're used to working in Keynote,
and they're used to
working in PowerPoint,
and they don't want the actual broadcast
of that stuff to become something
that's terribly time-soaked for them,
really, because it takes them away
from their core competency,
which is designing the presentation.
It has to be cross-platform, of course.
Mac OS X, Mac OS 9,
and the last few versions of
Windows is very helpful for all the
different markets that you have to be
in for a distance learning solution.
So on the multiple markets thing,
each market has sort of its
own requirements that you
need to be adaptable to.
So for instance,
the K-12 market has lower
equipment budgets and access to
much lower bandwidth generally.
So your system needs to be able
to scale down to handle that.
That's where you're supporting things
like Mac OS 9 and older versions
of Windows and things like that.
That's where it becomes very,
very important.
It also becomes very,
very important to be able to
have very low bandwidth slides
by using things like Flash,
which is a vector-based thing,
so you don't have these
gigantic QuickTime movies.
You need to have the flexibility to be
able to still be a compelling solution
with very low bandwidth availability.
Now, in higher education,
you do have great bandwidth,
and you tend to have newer equipment,
so there's less restrictions there.
It's a really fun market to work in.
So your system also needs
to be able to scale up.
You need to be able to take advantage
of that higher bandwidth so that
you're not giving these people
who have access to huge pipes,
giving them presentations
that they feel that they would
be getting on a 56K modem.
Corporate training is
an interesting market.
They generally have good
bandwidth for corporate training,
but one of the most important things
that corporate trainers need is
the ability to share their screen,
to be able to do real-time training.
And that's something that you
need to adhere to or at least
come up with some sort of solution
for the people in that market.
And for corporate communication...
You have varying bandwidth
and firewalls to deal with.
And the main reason is that when
you're doing corporate communications,
you have no idea where any of
the people are going to be who
are watching the presentation.
They could be on the corporate land.
They could be at home.
They could be in a hotel room somewhere.
So all these sorts of things
lead to vastly different firewall
configurations and vastly
different bandwidth availability.
So you need to be scalable.
You need to be scalable within
the context of a single broadcast.
That's really important so that
you have multiple ways to view the
broadcast for people who might have
multiple different kinds of broadcasts.
So you need to be scalable within
the context of a single broadcast.
That's really important so that
you have multiple ways to view the
broadcast for people who might have
multiple different kinds of broadcasts.
have multiple or different amounts
of bandwidth available to them.
Some other requirements.
People obviously need
some way to communicate,
whether that communication is back to
the presenter or amongst themselves,
and we'll talk a little bit more about
how we handle it in Caststream later.
And polling is a very,
very important thing.
Being able to assess your audience,
get a sense of where they are,
or if you're doing a learning thing,
you can actually test them,
get that information back,
and use it in some sort
of constructive way.
It's very, very important to be able to
achieve those goals as well.
So, of these things I just talked about,
we have a couple of boxes here.
We have the stuff that
QuickTime can help you with Box,
and the stuff that QuickTime can't
really help you that much with Box.
So there's a lot of stuff in the stuff
that QuickTime can help you with Box,
which is pretty cool.
QuickTime can help you
display your audio and video.
display your rich media,
and I should also have added in
there that you can use QuickTime to
display your still media as well,
JPEGs, GIFs, bitmaps,
all those sorts of things.
QuickTime has a great system for
handling live and on-demand content.
QuickTime is, of course,
cross-platform and very,
very good in both cases
on Mac and the PC.
And QuickTime has this media download
capability through the QuickTime data
handlers that I mentioned earlier.
So there's a few other things that you
do need to achieve kind of on your own
where QuickTime isn't really helpful.
Synchronization,
that's something that obviously
QuickTime does really well internally in
terms of synchronizing audio and video,
but you do need to come up with some sort
of system for synchronizing the slides.
So that's something that
you need to come up with.
Chat and polling are both things that you
probably need to implement on your own.
I've seen some pretty clever wired sprite
movies that can do this sort of stuff,
but generally it seems to be
better to handle that kind of
thing on the application level
instead of at the QuickTime level.
So here's Castream.
Here's the Castream UI.
As you can see, our fearless leader,
Steve, is in the video window there.
So what if we had to design
Castream without QuickTime?
What would we be left with?
It's kind of an interesting question.
Well, first of all, here's the Castream
UI as it stands today.
First off,
we'd of course lose the video window.
That's the most important thing
that we're using QuickTime for.
It's handling the live streaming
and the on-demand streaming.
So that would be gone,
as you might expect.
But we also lose our slide window,
because the slide window is
also handled by QuickTime.
This is where we display our JPEGs,
our GIFs, our bitmaps,
our progressive QuickTime movies,
our QuickTime VR movies.
All those things are handled through
QuickTime in that slide window.
And the last thing that you might
not have expected is our banner
area is also handled by QuickTime.
So we're utilizing QuickTime there
as well to be able to support any
number of media types that you might
want to put into the banner area.
Generally,
people tend to put animated GIFs there,
sort of like a web banner kind of thing.
But you have the flexibility
to use Flash or whatever you
want in that banner area.
All those things are
handled by QuickTime.
Fortunately, we do have QuickTime,
so we have a UI that looks a little
better than on the last slide.
So why do we choose to use QuickTime?
Well, as I'm sure everybody here knows,
QuickTime is a very high
performance video architecture.
If you have a machine that's
playing back video and you're
playing it back with QuickTime,
you can be guaranteed it's playing
back as good as it can on that machine.
QuickTime has the ability to
do scaling on the fly very,
very well, which is really important in
a distance learning solution,
because the types of media that
you end up with that you want to
broadcast to people aren't necessarily
designed for the presentation.
You could be pulling a QuickTime movie
from here and a Flash thing
from here and slides from here,
and you need to be able to scale those
things in real time so that you get a
cohesive experience on the player side,
and QuickTime does an
excellent job of doing that.
QuickTime supports a wide
variety of media types,
as we all know, just all kinds of things.
Of course, Flash, JPEG, GIF,
all the things that I've been
talking about over and over again.
It's well supported
and marketed by Apple,
which is a fantastic thing.
For instance, a lot of times,
Apple will do revisions to QuickTime that
don't necessarily require changes in
our app for us to utilize those changes.
Obviously, whenever a new version
of QuickTime comes out,
you have to do some sort of QA to make
sure that everything's working properly.
But a lot of times,
you just get stuff for free.
And that's a really,
really exciting thing to be
able to base your product on.
Of course,
QuickTime is completely cross-platform.
It works fantastic on the
PC and fantastic on the Mac.
And data handlers for media download,
that was a no-brainer for us to be
able to use the same code to do file
downloading on both the Mac and the PC.
Why wouldn't you want to use QuickTime?
Well, basically the biggest concern we
get is that some Windows users
will need to do an install.
And this is not such a huge thing.
Most Windows users are used to
doing some sort of installation
for any sort of product,
as opposed to on the Mac.
Most people are more accustomed
to the drag installs.
So as part of the PC install,
you can easily throw up a dialog and tell
people they need to install QuickTime and
run the QuickTime installer.
It's not a huge issue,
but there are some people who do complain
about that every once in a while.
And it is unfortunately the
cost of being able to utilize
this fantastic architecture.
So I'm going to talk one by one about
the various portions of the Castream UI.
First,
we're going to talk about the video area.
So what can you display
in the video area?
Well, you can display any movie
that's accessible via a URL.
So this includes all the standard
media types I've been talking about,
JPEGs, GIFs, and those sorts of things.
But it also includes
things like ref movies,
which is kind of convenient,
multi-data rate ref movies,
which allows you to have, say,
two different live streams going on,
one for 56K modem users and
one for broadband users.
There's also lots of really clever things
you can do with ref movies as well.
You can do audio-only movies, of course.
You can do audio movies
with picture tracks,
which is very convenient.
So if you want a really,
really low bandwidth sort of way
to do your live presentation,
you can have an audio-only feed and stick
in a picture track of the presenter.
So even maybe users on even 288
modems could be able to view
a presentation utilizing that.
And then you pair that with
multi-data rate movies,
and you don't have everybody sitting
at the lowest common denominator.
You have everybody having a customized.
experience based on the level of
bandwidth that they have access to.
And of course it can handle streaming,
RTSP or HTTP, or progressive,
which is interesting.
A lot of people tend to forget that
the QuickTime progressive download
fast start feature is a really,
really fantastic alternative to
doing a full-blown RTSP stream.
So you could certainly use a progressive
QuickTime movie in the slide area,
or in the video area in CastStream,
and it's a very useful thing to
be able to do if you don't have
access to say a QuickTime streaming
server when you're doing your
on-demand archived presentations.
So some of the common
issues for the video area,
firewalls are obviously something
that you have to be concerned of.
QuickTime handles that very elegantly
with an HTTP fallback feature.
New in QuickTime 6.3,
just within the last couple weeks,
is the ability to automatically
set up the transport,
which is handled by this
new sheet in QuickTime 6.3.
Some other common issues in the
video area are lack of bandwidth.
That's obviously something
that does come up a bit.
You can deal with that by doing
things like audio-only feeds,
audio with picture tracks,
like I mentioned,
and using multi-data rate ref
movies to help you customize
that experience for each user.
So the Cash Stream slide area,
also based on QuickTime,
allows you to display any
QuickTime compatible file
accessible via a URL.
So this is all sorts of still images,
JPEG, GIF, PNG, PICT, BMP,
every obscure format
that you can think of.
All different kinds of video,
RTSP and progressive.
So most people tend to do progressive
videos in the video window.
They'll take some sort of video that
they use in the classroom or whatever
and encode it and display it as a slide.
But you could also do another
live RTSP stream in the
video window if you wanted.
So that allows you to set up, say,
multiple cameras at an event
and have a camera on something
and a camera on something here.
And you can switch between them through
the course of your presentation,
insert those slides wherever you want.
And it's a very convenient,
cool thing to be able to do.
You can use some of the
specialty media types,
of course.
QuickTime VR, Wired Sprite, and Flash.
There's all kinds of things you
can do with those technologies.
And, of course, everything scales on the
fly in the slide area.
So if you have slides
that are 640 by 480,
they will automatically be
scaled down to the proper size
or scaled up if necessary.
Obviously, bandwidth is a concern.
So we do recommend if your slides
are too large that you actually
do scale them yourself ahead
of time just to save the bits.
But if you're less concerned
about bandwidth and more concerned
about just getting your stuff
done as quickly as possible,
then scaling on the fly is
certainly an adequate solution.
And lastly,
we have the Casting Banner area,
which is very similar to the Slide area,
actually.
It also can display any
QuickTime compatible
file accessible via URL.
It can do all the still
image types as well,
video, both RTSP and progressive as well.
Specialty, QuickTime VR, Wired, Sprite,
and Flash.
And it's often used for animated GIFs.
A lot of times we do have people also
doing Flash in this area because it's
such a lightweight media type and you
can do so much more than you would
be able to do with an animated GIF.
So we're also using the
QuickTime data handlers in Castream.
We're using both the HTTP and
the FTP data handlers for
downloading slide media,
which allows you to place
your slide media either on an
HTTP server or an FTP server,
whichever you'd prefer.
It's cross-platform,
and it's sort of a browser paradigm.
You pass off the URL to QuickTime,
QuickTime returns you a file,
and then you can do
whatever you want with it.
It's very, very convenient.
Here's a URL to some sample code about
the QuickTime file transfer protocol.
So we're going to move
over to the demo machine.
I think I'm still wired over here.
Yes, I am, which is fantastic.
And we're going to show
you CastStream here.
I'm just going to adjust something here.
See if this works.
So this is our vice
president of operations,
is that correct?
Jeff Jameson,
who's going to be talking to you for
a little bit about some of the rich
media content that Castream can display.
Okay, Jeff, we're ready to go.
I'm just going to send
him a message here.
[Transcript missing]
All right,
so just let me know real quickly, Chris,
that you can actually
see and hear me okay,
and we'll go ahead and get started.
Okay, great.
Alright, well hi everybody.
My name is Jeff Jameson.
I'm the Vice President of
Operations here at Cashdream.
Hope everybody is enjoying
the show today so far.
Wish I could be there myself,
but as it turns out,
Chris and Steve need some help with
a live demonstration here today,
so here I am.
So, real briefly here,
I'm going to spend about 15 minutes.
I'm going to talk about
what exactly Cashstream is.
And then I'm going to show you
some rich media examples and how
we utilize QuickTime inside our
distance learning application.
So let me jump right into things here.
So you know, before I get started,
I want to apologize for
any redundant information.
I'm sure Chris and Steve have kind of
talked a little bit about this already,
but flare with me and I'll
just go through it for those
folks who might have missed it.
So what exactly is Cashstream?
Well, Cashstream is a QuickTime-based
enterprise solution for e-learning.
We synchronize live audio and
video in this window here,
with rich media presentations
in this window over here.
Cashstream supports both live
and on-demand broadcasts,
which means while you're
seeing me here live today,
I could just as easily be recording this
and archiving for later on-demand use.
Cashstream is also scalable from
almost all Internet connections,
from 56k modem all the way
up through Internet LAN.
And most importantly,
Cashstream is completely cross-platform.
Again, because we leverage QuickTime,
we're able to display a various amount
of types of media to the viewers,
regardless of what platform they're on,
whether that be Mac OS 9, OS X,
or of course all the
iterations of Windows,
98 NT, 2000, etc.
So how do you create your media for
use with presentations inside Castream?
Well,
the good news is that you don't have
to learn any new tools for Castream.
You can already continue to use
the same authoring environment
that you're already familiar with,
whether that's Keynote or
PowerPoint or even Photoshop.
And again,
because we're leveraging QuickTime,
we're able to display some more
exotic media types like QuickTime VR,
interactive movies, and Mac Media Flash.
So let's jump right into some
examples here of what we can
do inside the Media Window.
First thing I want to
talk about is Flash.
Flash is a very popular media
type these days in the web,
and it's popular because
it's not just a static slide.
It's not just a bunch
of graphics and text.
It actually has motion.
It typically has animation of
some kind and moves around,
and that just generally
grabs your attention.
And of course, you know,
being vector-based and whatnot,
it makes for very low file size,
so it's great for low-end use,
for low bandwidth users.
So let me show you an example
of Flash real quickly.
This is a depiction of
Hurricane Floyd moving up
the eastern seaboard here.
As you can see,
this slide already is much more
compelling than the slide before it.
It doesn't just have text and
typical graphics and whatnot,
it has animation to it.
You can see the hurricane that's
moving up the eastern seaboard here.
But we decided to take
that one step further,
and Chris, if you haven't already,
take a look in the upper
right hand corner and you can
see some buttons up there.
There's a stop and a play button.
And we've added some
interactivity for the users.
So go ahead and play with those
buttons and you'll be able to see
that you can manipulate this animation
and move the hurricane up the coast.
Now this is a really powerful thing.
You know, it's great to see the animation
and have control over this,
but inside an e-learning space like this,
this is a really great thing.
Because, you know,
due to cash stream technology here,
this actual slide is cached
locally on your machine.
So you're able to manipulate this
slide and click on the buttons
completely independent and free of
any viewer or moderator control.
And, you know,
that's a really important thing.
You can learn at your own pace.
It's something that's very easy to do.
You know,
and you're able to play with this
button in any kind of environment.
So, you know,
a great example for use of Flash in
an e-learning tool like this would be,
for example, specifically if we were
to utilize this slide,
perhaps I would be a
senior meteorologist,
and you guys are all a
bunch of meteorologists,
or maybe I'm the
National Weather Service of some kind,
and I want to give a demonstration on,
you know, the latest hurricane update,
or maybe this already happened,
and the hurricanes passed through,
and I kind of wanted to
talk to you guys about,
you know, what exactly happened.
And because you have
independent control over this,
you can actually manipulate this slide,
you can stop,
you can play it while I'm talking to
you and describing things along the way,
you can make notes if necessary,
and that type of thing.
You know, another great use of Flash is
some type of tutorial.
I had seen this really great interactive
piece on an electronics company website,
similar to that of
Good Guys and Circuit City.
And this was a tutorial that was really
designed to help folks learn how to
set up their surround sound speakers.
And they were able to simply
log onto this interactive piece,
and it showed a depiction of
a living room environment.
You can click on the front of the room,
and it zooms in,
and it shows you the front
speakers and that type of thing.
And then you can zoom to the
rear and learn about the rear
speakers and that kind of thing.
And that's a really compelling
interactive piece in its own.
But now take that piece and bring it
inside an e-learning tool like this one,
and now suddenly it's a
whole lot more compelling.
You've got me sitting here
actually talking to you live.
So not only could you be actually
manipulating and playing and
interacting with this flash piece,
but you also have me here.
I could be talking you through it.
You could actually be
asking me questions live,
and I could be addressing those
questions as such if need be.
So that's the first part
of the presentation.
And that's a couple of really good
examples of how to utilize flash inside
an e-learning tool like this one.
Okay, so the next media type I want
to talk about is QuickTime.
You know,
because we're leveraging QuickTime,
we're able to display nearly all the
media types that QuickTime displays,
and that's over 80 different media types.
From simple, you know,
still graphics like GIFs, JPEGs,
and TIFFs,
similar to the one you're seeing now,
to a little more interactive stuff
like the flash piece you just saw.
But specifically,
I want to discuss some more
proprietary technologies to QuickTime.
Things that are really
more exotic media types,
like, you know, interactive movies,
QuickTime VR panoramas,
and object movies.
So let me show you this of an
example of one of those right now.
So while this appears to
be a simple photograph of,
you know, a beautiful shot of a boat
on the water here in Bermuda,
this is actually a QuickTime VR panorama.
So Chris, if you would,
go ahead and grab that with your
mouse and move it around and you can,
you know,
take a look at the environment there.
Now, you know,
I'm sure all of us have seen
QuickTime VR panoramas before,
but this is probably the first
time you're seeing it actually
working inside an e-learning tool.
And again, because it's actually
here in the media window,
you actually have me
here to talk about it.
And, you know,
a great example of use like this might
be that I'm actually a travel consultant,
and you've come to my website
to attend a travel seminar
specifically on maybe Bermuda.
And I want to teach you about Bermuda,
and, you know,
I could talk to you over the phone.
I could even send you some brochures.
But really, by immersing yourself inside
this actual application,
you've got me here live talking to you.
I can address your questions.
I can tell you, hey,
I recommend a specific hotel, because,
you know, you come out the door of the
hotel and there's a dock.
You walk right out,
and it's a beautiful view.
And you're like, well,
I can actually share that with you.
I can have you and allow you to immerse
yourself inside this whole scene.
And so, you know,
the opposite end of utilizing
QuickTime VR panorama might
be to use an object movie.
For example,
let's say I'm a sales manager
of a sports equipment company.
And, you know,
we've got a new line of shoes coming out,
and, you know, it hasn't been released
to the public yet,
but we really want you guys,
the sales reps,
to get out there and start selling it.
Well, you're going to need to see it.
You're going to need to look at it.
You're going to need to
hold it kind of a thing.
So with a QuickTime VR object movie,
I can actually show you the shoe.
I can let you spin it around,
look at it from various angles,
maybe look at the tread.
You know, you're going to have to answer
questions for the resellers
who are going to want to,
you know, know specific things.
And maybe even I can do some really
interesting things like throw in
some wired sprite layers and maybe
have some buttons there that allows
you to show the different types
of colors that the shoe comes in.
So those are a few examples of some
really neat ways of utilizing some
more exotic QuickTime types inside
an e-learning space like Cash Dream.
Alright, so the next thing I want
to talk about is video.
You know,
video is becoming one of the most popular
media types on the web these days.
Nearly every website you go to,
you see some type of link somewhere
that has some kind of video to display.
And with Castream,
you're able to display and show some
really high quality video images in
the media window here to my right.
You know, video is so immersive,
it's so exciting and enthralling.
It really grabs people's attention.
Every time you go see
a movie at the theater,
you just sit in there and you're
really immersed and you find yourself
just getting into this movie and
you feel like you're a part of it.
Well, we really wanted to bring
that kind of feeling into an
e-learning space with Castream.
So, what we've done is we've, again,
leveraged QuickTime to be able to display
some really high quality videos here.
Now, you know, we're on the Internet now.
We're streaming.
And, you know, in actually using video
for this live feed,
it's a really simple thing.
It's a really great thing.
You're seeing me here at
about 100 kilobits or so.
And that works great for a talking
headshot like you're seeing me in now.
Of course, if I move around a lot,
that kind of thing,
it might get a lot more
pixelated and choppy.
But fortunately,
because we have this e-learning space,
because we have, we leverage QuickTime in
the media window,
I can show some much more high quality,
CD-ROM quality videos in here.
So let me give you a demonstration
of one of those right now.
My name is Steven Chase,
and we are at the Townhouse
Studios in West London.
♪ ♪ All right.
So that was a really good example
of some really high quality video,
much more compelling than the
video you're seeing me in here,
again constrained by the Internet and the
amount of connection that the viewer has.
So, you know,
a great example of using that video,
if you've noticed,
that this video window here
continued to play simultaneously
with the video stream,
with the other video you
just saw in the media window.
And I could have done some
really interesting things there.
I could have turned down
the volume of that video and
maybe walked you through it.
Perhaps I was, you know,
an audio engineer of some kind
and I wanted to share with you,
you know,
when I went to West London to see
the townhouse studios and I met
this particular audio engineer
or that audio engineer and etc.
That type of thing.
And that's a really compelling way
because I can show you some really
high quality video there without having
to worry about the constraints of being
on the Internet and streaming to you.
Another great example
of video use might be,
let's go back to the
travel agent scenario.
You know,
I showed you the great immersive VR,
but you know, you're still not certain.
So maybe I can show you some actual
video that I've taken from the hotel.
I can walk you through it step by step.
You know, this is the lobby.
This is the the rooms look
like that type of thing.
And even take you into some
testimonials from particular folks
who might have stayed at that hotel.
So you can see that's a
really powerful way to utilize
video in an e-learning space.
So the next thing I want to
talk about is assessment.
And you know,
assessment is probably the most critical
function in any e-learning environment.
With Castream, you're able to integrate
real-time live audience polls.
You can ask either single
question polls or tests,
or you can actually string together
multiple questions to ask a multi-choice
test or survey type of thing.
So let me show you how easy
this really is to do right now.
I'm going to pull up my
poll control window here.
And you know,
I can either take the time here to do
this the night before and prepare a
whole set of questions and then load
them in for my presentation today.
But I actually didn't do that today.
And I'm going to put Chris on the
spot here because I really wanted
to show an example of how easy
this is to submit a question.
So Chris, if you would,
simply type me in any kind of question
that you can think of on the fly here,
and I will enter it in, repurpose it,
and follow it.
to use to go back and
question the audience here.
So go ahead and type in
any question that you can.
Give me something here.
What is the name?
Computer.
Okay,
I'm just typing in my question here.
Yesterday.
Alright.
So I'm going to set up a
couple of answers here.
And again, I'm doing this on fire.
And, uh, alright.
So I put in a few different questions.
I'm going to choose to
show the results to you,
and I'll explain that in just a moment.
I simply update that question,
I highlight that question,
and I turn around and
I ask it to the audience.
Now you'll notice that a new window
just popped up above your player.
That's a really subtle thing,
but I'd like to really kind of point
out something particular with that.
We chose to do that intentionally,
because if this really was
a true testing environment,
I might have wanted to test you on,
you know, one of the slides that's in
the media window right now.
And I wouldn't want to have to take that,
uh, media away in order to ask a
question to the audience here.
So Chris, if you would,
go ahead and click on an answer.
Um, choose any answer just so, uh,
you know, whatever.
Okay, don't know I'm sleeping, of course.
I'm sure everybody's sleeping there,
right.
But as you can see,
as soon as Chris answered,
it updated in real time back,
showing 100% of the people here answered,
don't know I'm sleeping.
And of course,
you guys are the only folks connected.
If we did have some
other folks connected,
you'd see that what happens is,
is as people connect,
as people answer the question, the, uh,
the, uh, the results are updated in
real time in a percentage,
it's running constantly as people, uh,
you know,
sit there and submit their answer,
and it would show, as it shows now,
100% don't know I'm sleeping,
it would show, you know, 50% here,
50% there, that kind of thing,
and so forth.
So,
And again, just as well,
because I asked a single question,
if this really was a
true testing environment,
I could have chosen to check,
uncheck the show poll results,
and I would have presented
the question to you again.
It simply would have
asked you the question,
you would have selected an answer,
and it would have said thank you very
much and closed the window and goodbye.
And the next thing would have
been a series of questions
where I could take a series of,
say,
let's say 10 multiple choice questions,
string those together, and, you know,
go ahead and present that to you.
And you'd go through a similar
UI where it says question 1 through 10,
2 through 10, etc.
So what do we do with all the
information that you actually,
when people submit answers,
what do we do with all that stuff?
Well, the good news is that there's
no big server on the back end.
You don't need SQL Server or
anything else to manage this.
All the information is submitted back to
the moderator here at my local machine.
We capture things like the name
and location that you entered,
as well as the IP address of the
machine that you're connecting from.
And all this information is saved
into a simple tab-delimited format
spreadsheet that you can easily
export either on the fly during your
presentation or when you're done.
And bring it into any one of your
favorite spreadsheet applications
like Excel and whatnot.
All right, so that is polling.
So Chris,
if you'll go ahead and close that window.
Let me go ahead and let's move on.
All right, so we just recently announced
version 2 of Castream,
and I just want to touch on a few
of the highlight features here
and go through that real briefly.
The first thing is that we now
support up to 500 concurrent users.
Each iteration of the server will
support up to 5 simultaneous broadcasts,
and now up to 500 users concurrently.
That means, for example,
I could be giving a presentation
to 250 people on this server,
as well as someone else connected
on the same server could be giving
another presentation to 250 people,
and so forth.
We now offer a choice of window
size of the media window.
The media that you're seeing
here to my right is 480x360,
and we also have a
smaller size at 320x240,
which just helps reduce the
ones and zeros for those folks
on lower bandwidth connections.
We now support a great,
great feature for some
folks with disabilities.
We have a slide text captioning feature.
We recognize that there are
some people out there that
may have hearing disabilities,
and so we allow up to 1,024 characters
to be associated with each slide.
Chris, if you haven't already,
go ahead and open up your slide
text captioning window using
Command-T on your keyboard there.
And you can see as that window pops up,
there's a couple buttons
there to increase or decrease
the size of the font because,
again, we recognize there are some
other folks that might have
additional disabilities as well.
So with CAST Stream 2,
we also support now multiple moderators,
which means that we
can have actually two,
three, or multiple different moderators
at different locations physically.
You know,
I might have set up a presentation
where I've got 20 slides,
and maybe one through ten are my slides,
and I'd like to pass it off
at slide 11 to someone else,
say, in Boston on the East Coast.
And what I can do is simply highlight
that person in my user list,
I select him, I grant him control,
and let him go through the slides.
And as the master moderator,
I can simply take that
control back when he's done.
And finally, CastStream has a really
powerful URL linking feature,
which means that you can basically
associate any URL with any slide.
And it's as simple as setting
this up in the slide properties
in the moderator here.
I simply type in the URL I want,
and it makes it so easy so
that when I get to this slide,
a user can simply click on this slide,
and it will open their default browser
and take them to the associated URL.
So Chris, again, if you would,
please just click on the slide,
and you can see it will open up his
default browser and take you to,
which is of course Safari,
and take you to the associated
site that I've set with this slide.
Now you'll notice that, you know,
as the browser opens,
you can still hear me in the background.
I still continue to run flawlessly
and seamlessly here with the browser
as it searches out for the website.
And this is a really great way to get
people to kind of share some other
materials that you might have for
your presentation that's kind of out
there on the web without them actually
leaving the learning environment here.
Alright, so those are the cash
stream 2 highlights.
And that basically wraps it up for me,
Chris.
Unless there's something else
specifically that you want
me to go back and review,
let me know.
Otherwise, I will happily sign off.
So is there anything you'd like me
to go back to review specifically?
No, we're good.
All right.
Well, thank you very much, everybody.
Take care and enjoy the show.
All right.
So there's an example of our
distance learning solution.
Obviously,
if you're designing your own solution,
you're going to have many similar goals
that you're going to want to achieve.
We have to be most familiar with cashier,
of course, which is why it's easy
for us to talk about it.
But Jeff did cover a lot
in his presentation there,
and some of the things
I was going to cover,
too.
So I'm going to go a little
bit quickly through some of
my last remaining slides here,
and then we'll get Dr.
Steven Erde up here to show you some cool
applications he's doing with Cash Dream.
So can we go back to slides, please?
Thank you.
So,
what sorts of things do you need to be
concerned about when you're designing
your distance learning solution,
other than the obvious things
with audio and video and whatnot?
So, you need to be concerned
about slide creation.
You need to be able to create
slides in a variety of applications
so that people can work in tools
that they're already familiar with,
supporting tools like Keynote,
PowerPoint, Flash, Photoshop,
Illustrator, Appworks.
Those things are very important.
Utilizing QuickTime allows you
to basically have support for
any application that can produce
something that QuickTime can display.
So, anything that can be played
back in QuickTime Player,
you can play back within CashRamen
as part of your presentation.
In our case,
we happen to have some actual
integration with Keynote that
we've done using AppleScript.
So you export your Keynote presentation,
and then you process it with an
AppleScript and QuickTime Player Pro,
which then prepares the
slides for use with Castream.
This is very convenient for
people who do use Keynote.
It allows them to retain the
transitions and all sorts of
cool things that you have as part
of your Keynote presentations.
You need to be concerned
about slide synchronization.
As I mentioned before,
the video is delayed by
the live broadcaster.
In our case,
we came up with a technology called
SyncSure to make certain that the
slides and the video did remain
in sync throughout a broadcast.
That's something that you'll
also need to sort out.
And here's our SyncSure slide delay
slider in the broadcast setup.
You can set it anywhere from 0 to
30 seconds to compensate for the
latency in your streaming connection.
There's also an additional SyncSure slide
delay compensation in the player.
This is really convenient for people
who happen to be much further away
from your broadcast point than others.
So if you set, say, a four-second delay,
which is good for most people,
some people, say,
in Australia might actually be
experiencing a six-second delay.
So they can actually add on
to the delay if they want to
keep their slides in sync.
Chat is very important because
users need a way to communicate
with the presenter or the moderator,
to ask them questions and
provide them feedback,
that sort of thing.
They generally need a way to
communicate with each other.
This is useful up to a
certain number of people.
It can certainly get out of hand
if you have too many people.
But if you have a moderately sized group,
allowing the group to chat amongst
themselves is certainly something
that is an option for you to do.
It is nice to be able to turn that off,
though.
There are situations where you don't
want people jabbering amongst themselves
while you're giving a presentation.
So you can actually turn
that off as a moderator.
You have the control to do that.
So in that case,
the chat with the presenter
becomes sort of a one-way thing,
where you're typing in questions,
it's showing up to the presenter,
and nobody else is
seeing those questions.
It's also really convenient for the
presenter if you want to pick and choose
which questions you want to answer.
It allows you some level
of editorial control.
Chat can be globally
disabled per broadcast,
or individual users can close the chat
window if it's distracting to them.
So if you're not interested in
being part of the conversation,
you can just click that
disclosure triangle.
and close up the chat window and
you don't have to see any of it.
And polling is very important,
as Jeff spent some time talking about.
Presenters need a way to poll
the audience to perform tests,
to assess interest,
and to guide the presentation,
which is an interesting thing.
A lot of our users tend to create
presentations that are much
larger than the presentation
they actually end up giving.
And they ask the audience in
the middle of the presentation
how they want to proceed.
They get a sense of where
they're at with the content,
and they get a sense of what
they really are interested in,
and they go to that portion
of their presentation.
They have basically branching
points that can go to.
So that's a convenient use
of the polling architecture.
So here's an example
of a CastStream poll.
In this case,
we're talking about widgets, as you do.
And I'm buying a wacky Widget Pro there,
I guess.
The polling system has
no back-end database.
The results are stored directly
in the moderator application.
This is really key because it's a
little daunting for most people to set
up some sort of back-end SQL database
and all those sorts of things.
In our case, the data is stored
directly in the moderator,
and it can be exported
as tab-delimited text.
It's very, very simple for the user.
You don't have to write a
single SQL SELECT statement.
And that data can be imported
then into Excel or FileMaker,
AppleWorks,
or various learning management systems.
So, the last thing you probably really
need to be most concerned about is
your cross-platform considerations.
Various markets need support
for various platforms.
Mac OS X obviously is
incredibly important.
Various versions of Windows is important.
But if you're targeting education,
you also do need to consider
Mac OS 9 because there's still a
lot of Mac OS 9 machines out there.
QuickTime supports the vast
majority of desktops in the world,
so obviously you can't go wrong there.
In our case,
Castrium is developed with Real Basic,
which allows for Carbon and Win32
compilation from a common code base,
which is an incredible time saver
when you're trying to ship for six or
seven different platforms at one time.
So here's some links to some
documentation about the sorts
of things we talked about.
Obviously,
the basic QuickTime documentation
can be found there.
QuickTime data handlers can
also be found at this next URL.
And there's an example file
that I mentioned earlier,
but here's that URL again.
And an excellent page about
AppleScript and QuickTime Player Pro,
if you're interested in utilizing
the AppleScript architecture
to do some sort of integration
of your app with another app.
And that's it for me.
Do you want to come up and introduce Dr.
Erde?
Thank you.
Thanks, Chris.
And I want to say also thanks to Jeff.
Jeff doesn't do demos every day,
and we sort of put him on
the spot to do this one.
And I think he did a great job.
So thanks, Jeff.
So the next speaker that I'd
like to introduce is someone that
I consider to be very lucky to know.
He's a very distinguished presenter.
Dr.
Steven Erde is the Senior Director of the
Office of Academic Computing at the Weill
Medical School at Cornell University.
He's also the Chief Security Officer.
He's also an Associate Professor.
He's an M.D.
and a Ph.D., one of the
smartest people I've ever met,
and also one of our first customers.
And I thought it would be
really cool to invite Dr.
Erde to the stage to have him
give you a sense of how he's
doing this in the real world.
You know, we can do demos,
and we can talk about
how this stuff works,
but he had real problems
to solve and real resources
to apply to those problems.
And I'd like for him to sort of give
us a sense for how he's doing it.
So, Dr.
Erde.
Thanks a lot, Steve.
Thank you.
It's fun to be part of the
Castream advertising team here.
Well, just let me tell you a little
bit about where I come from.
Basically, the Weill Medical College is
located in New York City.
The rest of Cornell is in Ithaca,
in case you guys know that.
We have had a computer-assisted
problem-based curriculum,
which means that the medical students
are actually challenged with problems
as opposed to getting lectures.
There are very,
very few lectures going forward.
I don't know what's sort of
the makeup of this audience.
How many of you are sort of higher-ed
educators versus computer geeks?
Any higher-ed people?
Oh, good.
Okay.
So, this curriculum change was a
major shift in medical education,
and it's happened in quite a few
schools in the last 10 years.
Cornell had been
Macintosh-based since 1984.
We actually started doing interactive
video disks with Mac Pluses,
and that was through a grant with Apple,
and it was a lot of fun.
One of the things that has recently
happened is that we've opened a
branch of the medical school in Qatar,
and I have a few of my colleagues
here from Qatar in the audience.
It's going to be a combined
undergraduate-graduate program,
so the first two years
are going to be taught by
Cornell University faculty in Ithaca,
and the medical school
faculty in New York City,
as well as faculty in Qatar,
are going to be teaching
the last four years.
[Transcript missing]
Can you bring up the demo machine?
All right.
Actually, I wanted to do that.
I apologize, this is a canned demo,
but the bandwidth over the
Internet wasn't as secure
as I would have liked.
Today we're going to
talk about narcolepsy,
one of the most dramatic
of all the sleep disorders.
250,000 Americans have this
rather debilitating disorder,
whose primary symptom,
besides excessive daytime sleepiness,
is cataplexy.
So this is his PowerPoint slides
that we basically took.
That's right, we took offline,
and you notice that the slide changes
are going on as he's giving the lecture.
When he clicks his synchronization,
we can remotely change the slide.
It's a really interesting topic,
and the reason I want to show
this is because the extra media
that we have really makes the
point of why this is important.
It's an attack of REM sleep
right during the daytime.
So you're not going from
slow-wave sleep into REM sleep.
But in this case,
you're going directly from
wakefulness into REM sleep,
and it's rather frightening.
Now these attacks are self-limiting.
After they're over,
the patient will get up and resume life,
just as it were,
before you told the funny joke
and he or she got stimulated.
I'm going to talk about two
case histories with narcolepsy,
people who have these cataplexic attacks.
Most of you are probably not narcoleptic,
I hope, but you're probably
very tired after lunch.
I have a senior citizen golfer who,
in his retirement, loves to play golf.
But he says to me, "I've got one problem,
Jim, and that is every time
I get a great shot,
I get so excited I have
cataplexy and I collapse right
in the middle of the fairway.
It's a darn good thing
I'm not a great golfer.
I never finish 18 holes."
Types of things that bring on
cataplexy are not only laughter,
but surprise, anger, fear, sexual orgasm.
So you can begin to fall.
Think about some of the problems
that these people encounter.
This is what you get
when you go to Cornell.
No matter how many hours
they spend the night before,
within two or three hours of
them getting up in the morning,
they feel as if they had been
up for 48 straight hours.
It is very, very debilitating.
The other person I'm going to
introduce you to is a woman who calls
herself the laughing joke meter.
She works on the assembly line at the
Henry Ford Automobile plant in Dearborn,
Michigan, and she has cataplexy.
It's one of her symptoms.
And she says, "Every time I come to
work on Monday morning,
everybody on my assembly line
tells me the funniest joke that
they've heard over the weekend.
And the one who makes me collapse
the longest is the one who wins the
assembly line pool for the week."
She has a very good sense of humor
about this very debilitating disorder.
Dogs also have narcolepsy.
In fact, we breed dogs for narcolepsy.
It's a genetically linked disorder
so that we can study those things.
And we can study the things in the
dog that cause narcolepsy so we can
perhaps isolate the brain structures
in the human and hopefully treat them
so that they no longer have narcolepsy.
That's a plug for our vet school,
by the way.
Here is my colleague out at Stanford,
Bill Demet, holding a dog, Ginger.
The dog is not dead.
It's sleeping.
It's having a narcoleptic attack.
Ginger has narcolepsy, has cataplexy,
has excessive daytime sleepiness.
Now, you can't interview the dog to say,
"How tired are you?"
You can certainly see this.
We have a movie of the dog you can see.
And just like the humans, laughter,
surprise, sex,
fear will bring on cataplectic attacks.
In fact,
here Bill is holding Ginger the cockapoo.
And she was licking his
chin and being very happy,
now being held and cuddled
as a laboratory animal.
And she got so excited that the
minute the shutter was snapped,
down Ginger went,
as you can see Bill holding her,
in a cataplexic state.
Now, if you didn't know that,
you'd be very upset about that.
So, here's a film clip now.
First of the dogs.
Now, these dogs haven't been
fed for about six hours.
And the mere sight of
food gets them so excited,
they have cataplexy and they
can't make it to the food dish.
Then you'll see the golfer
and then the woman who calls
herself the laughing joke-meeter.
You notice we've got to have
the Apple logo in there.
... narcoleptic dogs have a tremendously
exaggerated tendency to fall asleep.
A golfer excited by a successful
golf stroke falls victim to a
sudden attack of narcolepsy.
He loses all muscle control
and instantly enters REM sleep.
Dr.
Martin Scharf protects
him from injuring himself.
Narcolepsy is a lifelong sleep disorder
whose symptoms are excessive daytime
sleepiness and sudden sleep paralysis.
Although there are medicines
to affect temporary relief,
there is no known cure for the disease.
After a brief time, the golfer awakes.
Now the quality of the
compression here is not what's
causing this to be bad media.
It's the original film.
It's very old.
...who are familiar with her
condition has an arcolytic attack
brought about by an amusing story.
[Transcript missing]
I think I'll stop it now,
since then you'll have to
pay for a Cornell education.
So, you know,
this was a tough course for us.
This is a really dynamic course.
The guy's got media all the time.
So we did a bunch of things.
One is we convinced him to move
his entire lecture to Keynote,
which was a real tough,
because he was a PC guy.
But once he saw the rotating cubes,
that was it.
He was sold.
That's all that mattered.
But by converting all
of his media to digital,
we did a lot of things.
First of all, we preserved his archive,
which is incredible.
Second is we basically allowed
him to give his entire lecture
live from a single laptop,
which is really also amazing.
But we had the ability
then to capture this.
We videotaped the lectures,
and they're compressed.
My project manager sitting in the front,
John Ruffing, you know,
he basically did his demo very quickly.
We just got a hold of
the 2.0 version recently.
We needed the bigger window.
We couldn't go with the
smaller version originally.
And it's a really tough course.
I think it's very effective.
I mean, I could see everybody in
the audience was not bored.
Everybody was watching it.
So it's a pretty good way to
present this material in a fashion
that we could not do otherwise.
So as I said, I think it was a good
solution to a problem.
So that's it.
Thank you.